# Journal

## WEEK 1
### Thursday 12:30 - 13:45
We met and discussed what programming languages each of us knows best and based on that we started looking intopossible github projects we could work on and which would be interesting for us. We considered many projects mainly in Java, Python and JavaScript and made a list of the most interesting ones to choose from in the end. Everyone got the homework to go through the list and choose one.

### Friday 9:30 - 11:00
Informed discussion about the possible projects.
Everyone was satisfied with the jupyter notebook project which is almost 50:50 Python/JS.

### Progress
* Group formation
* Project chosen
* Reading upon stakeholders and context view
* Understanding the architecture of Jupyter notebook

## WEEK 2
### Monday
Discussed whether we need to buy the course book or use the previous edition. Finally decided to buy an online version and we prepared to read the chapters for the first deliverable D1: Contect View and Stakeholders. 

### Wednesday 16:00 - 18:00
Discussed the stakeholders and the context view in regards to our chosen project. 
The team-members already have read the respective chapters from the book.
We discussed how we can apply the knowledge to our project, and distributed the work for the first deadline as follows:
- Lorenzo & Ajay: Context View
- Giannis & Ani: Stakeholders

Firthermore, we created a github issue to ensure that each of us has setup the local development environment as per the [instructions](https://github.com/delftswa2017/notebook/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.rst)

### Friday 18:00 - 19:30
Viewed the progress for stakeholders and the context view.
Checked on the work progress and eventually redistributed work to better balance the workload.
Practiced how to create a pull request and review work.

### Progress
* First pull request made on Jupyter notebook master [#2220](https://github.com/jupyter/notebook/pull/2220)
* Analysed the stakeholders
* Analysed 10 pull requests and 10 issues
* Made the context view

## WEEK 3
### Monday
We did final changes for deliverable D1. Since we could not meet in person, we were actively in touch online on slack and github. We discussed each commit by each of the members and went over the commits with critical comments and requesting changes. Finally we merged all the work and submitted the assignment before the deadline.

### Tuesday 17:45 - 18:45
Discussed about the end result of deliverable D1 face to face and the checked the status of our contribution to the Jupyter Notebook project.
Looked into the deliverables D2 and development view. Finally, a meeting was planned to work together on it after each of us has read the book chapter. 

### Friday 10:30 - 13:00
Discussed the D1 feedback (where we agree and where we could ask TAs to elaborate) and how we can improve as a team.
Informed discussion about the different D2 issues.
Regarding D3, we tried to find a way to fairly split the work as there are three main points of the assignment. One of the points seemed to be broader (Codeline Models) than the others, thus we split it into two parts. Finally, we created git issues for the assignment overview and also individual issues for each member. The individual ones look like:
- **Ajay** Codeline Models: Source Code Structure and Configuration Management
- **Lorenzo** Codeline Models: Codeline Models: Build, Integration and Testing Approach and Release Process
- **Giannis** Model Structure Models
- **Ani** Common Design Models

Giannis and Ajay both were assigned to both "Model Structure Model" and "Codeline Models: Codeline Models: Build, Integration and Testing Approach and Release Process" since they could meet later and decide further who of them does what.

### Progress
* Second pull request made on Jupyter notebook [#2244](https://github.com/jupyter/notebook/pull/2244)
* Made the Development view
* Tried to get in contact with developers via a [chatroom](https://gitter.im/jupyter/notebook) they have which is open to public and anyone can talk directly to the core developers. 

## WEEK 4
### Monday
Met with the whole group and finalized deliverable D3. Worked together for a long time to complete the assignment and each of us reviewed and commented/requested changes on the work of the others before all of the materials were merged for the final version of the deliverable.

### Wednesday 13:45 - 14:45
Discussed about the deliverable D3.

Split the workload among the team members through issues on git. We split the workload to front-end and back-end code debt and front-end/back-end test debt. We created git issues based on this and assigned each of us to one of the issues.

### Friday 15:30 - 17:00
Discussion about our grade and feedback for D2. We discussed whether it was a good choice to go further with the course, as we barely passed D2 while we worked very hard for it. We reached out to Mauricio and Arie just for a second opinion. Mauricio said he will discuss with Arie, about the re-evaluation of D2, and said that we should not be blocked by D2 and do our best for D3. He gave us the motivation to go on with the course, which we were lacking at this moment.

After Andy's lecture, we realized that the intent of D3 is to look at the technical debt in small-scale instead the whole project. We were supposed to make pull requests or open issues for solving some technical debt in the code. 

Before the meeting we've attempted to organize ourselves and work within the defined tasks, however we quickly realized it doesn't work this way and when we met, we reconsidered the work and decided to do it based on types of technical debt as follows:
- **Giannis & Ajay** Code Debt
- **Lorenzo & Ajay** Testing Debt (Frontend & Backend)
- **Ani** Documentation Debt

Updated status of the repository with corresponding issues.

### Progress
* Found Technical debt in Jupyter Notebook in terms of code, testing and documentation
* Figured out some issues we could contribute to in regards to Technical Debt

## WEEK 5
### Monday
During the weekend each of us looked for technical debt and we found things we could improve in the project and thus, on Monday when we met, we discussed these issues and opened pull requests first in [our fork](https://github.com/delftswa2017/notebook/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed) and then [in upstream](https://github.com/jupyter/notebook/pulls).

### Thursday 16:30 - 17.30
Met to discuss the pitch for Friday and agree on points we need to present. We worked on the slides that would be included in the presentation and what we want to say.
Furthermore, we decided who will present. 

Moreover we were given a chance to improve our journal, contributions and the Module Structure model based on Sander's feedback by Friday evening. Thus, we also discussed the work we need to do to for that and split it between each other.  

### Friday 9:30 - 12:00
On Friday, we met to rehearse the presentation and improve it, where necessary. We discussed a possible question that we could use audience's input on and discussed our understanding and answers of potential questions that the audience may ask. 
We also discussed how the work is going on incorporating the feedback for the deadline later that day.

### Progress
* Each member of the group has made a [pull request](https://github.com/jupyter/notebook/pulls) to Jupyter Notebook related to technical debt
	* [Lorenzo](https://github.com/jupyter/notebook/pull/2278)
	* [Giannis](https://github.com/jupyter/notebook/pull/2279)
	* [Ajaya](https://github.com/jupyter/notebook/pull/2281)
	* [Ani](https://github.com/jupyter/notebook/pull/2280)
* Incorporated provided feedback
* Prepared and did a pitch on Jupyter Notebook

## WEEK 6
### Monday 10:00 - 15:00
During the weekend we discussed online what the work split will be and created issues. On Monday we met to discuss the deliverable D4 and our progress on it. We checked who has done what, reviewed each other's work and discussed the feedback of D3 which we received the same day.

For the chapter, we decided to make a short interview with one of the core developers of the project and include that in the book. The user we intend to contact is [@Carreau](https://github.com/Carreau). 
Furthermore, we confirmed what else needs to be written and what needs to be corrected. 

In Week 6 we were given the individual assignments with peer reviews (D5), hence we did not meet to discuss this as also the week for each of us was busy and we decided to work on our own and on other projects. 

### Progress
* Completed D4
* Bidding for peer review projects
* each of us worked on our own paper review (D5)

## WEEK 7
### Monday
Some of us finished their peer reviews D5 on Monday which they've started in the weekend. 

### Wednesday 9.30 - 11:00
We had a group meeting to discuss how to proceed further for the final chapter deliverable D6. We still have parts to finish and others to fix and proofread. We discussed the questions we want to ask @Carreau (the core Jupyter Notebook developer) since we wand to conduct an interview with him and add that in the final chapter.  

Moreover, we've just received the feedback from our peers and decided that Ani will summarize them before the next meeting, Lorenzo will update the Context View with the users and will write one extra perspective: Evolution, Ajay will write the additional Functional view for the chapter, and Giannis will update the Technical Debt as it contains too much information at the moment and needs to be shortened and more concise. 

### Saturday 18.00 - 20:00
Group meeting to check on the progress of each of us and reassign tasks, if necessary. Most of us have done what we agreed upon and a few things need to be completed. Following our plan, from Saturday onwards we need to implement the feedback plus other things we need to to, the main points are:
* Rewrite introduction as per feedback, i.e. include general description of Jupyter and what does the chapter contains
* Shorten Stakeholders & fix some mistakes
* Update Module Structure Model and Context View a bit
* Finish the Technical Debt for the chapter 
* Shorten Continuous Integration
* Write conclusion

We split these tasks among the four of us and started working on them. Next meeting is on Monday.

## Week 8 
### Monday 10:00 - 16:00
We met to discuss the progress on the final chapter D6. Finished the additional view and perspective and reworked a bit some of the other parts, like conclusion, abstract and introduction. We also created a checklist in issue ([#90](https://github.com/delftswa2017/team-jupyter/issues/90)) to ensure and track some final changes before delivering the chapter.
Additionally, we were not sure about the references and whether we can include some of them as links or should they all be in the final list of references. Thus we asked on Slack for a verification. We fixed this as well during our meeting.
Finally each of us proofread the whole chapter to confirm it is coherent and good to go.

### Progress
* Completed D6